---
title: "Reproducing Malcomb 2014"
date: 2023-10-05
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - GIS
  - Science
---

## Assignment
Your final product from the workshop should be an extended blog post using the results and experience of this reproduction study to evaluate Malcomb et al (2014) in the framework of Tate (2013)’s assessment of error and uncertainty in spatial vulnerability models.

The blog post should make use of:

The Malcomb et al (2014) publication
The Tate (2013) publication (see next lesson)
The Malcomb et al (2014) https://github.com/HEGSRR/RPr-Malcomb-2014

## Takeaways from reproduction results - 10/4/23

### Adaptive Capacity

The reproduction tends to give a lower AC score than the original study (as shown in the confusion matrix below). The reproduction was only higher than the original 4 times, and all were located in the south of Malawi. The reproduction assigned the same score 82 times, and underestimated the score 111 times. 

The Spearman's Rho is 0.789, suggesting that the reproduction consistently made predictions when compared with the original scores. I wonder if this comes from the interpretation of the quintile scale as being from 0 to 4 instead of 1-5/a larger bin count. 

For adaptive capacity (fig 4)
Rows = repro scores, columns = original scores
  
     1  2  3  4
  1 34 27  6  0
  2  4 26 44  5
  3  0  0 19 29
  4  0  0  0  3


### Vulnerability

Vulnerability scores are assigned on a 0-100 scale. On the comparison map showing reproduction - original scores, positive scores mean that the repro score = original score + x and negative scores mean that the repro score = original score - x. 

The map shows that the reproduction tended to assign lower scores than the original study. However, the Spearman Rho coefficient of 0.197 suggests the values assigned have very little correlation to those of the original study. I wonder where this comes from -- Alex thought that because the vulnerability score is based on the adapative capacity score, errors in the adaptive capacity score amplified and create noise in the vulnerability score. 


to do:
-clean up code
-put description in code
-one cohesive report (discussion)
-blog post